I spend most of my time thinking about
little girls which is kind of a weird
thing for a grown man in our society to
say but I do I spend most of my time
thinking about little girls and I think
it's primarily because I have one this
one's mine
and I think you would really like her
she is smart and funny and kind to
people and a good friend but when I talk
about my daughter the word I find myself
saying most is athlete my kids athletic
she is strong and fast and has great
balance and good body control
she's a three-time back-to-back-to-back
state champion and she'll in tempo at
nine years old she is already halfway to
a black belt
my daughter is athletic now when a man
who is 6 foot 2 and 265 pounds stands in
front of you and says his daughter is
athletic you might think that's a
reflection of him it is not my wife in
high school was a two-time Allstate
soccer player and a two-time All State
volleyball player and I played Dungeons
& Dragons and that is why although my
daughter is an athlete she's also a huge
nerd which I love she walks around our
house in a cloak of flames that she made
herself she sits on the Iron Throne
even though she has never seen Game of
Thrones primarily because we are not the
worst parents who ever lived but she
knows there's someone called the mother
of dragons and she calls herself that
and she loves it she's a huge comic book
fan right now her favorite character is
Groot
she loves Groot she adores the
Incredible Hulk but my daughter really
at heart her her thing is Star Wars my
kid is a Jedi
although someday she is also a Sith
which is a choice that I can respect but
here's here's the question that I have
to ask why is it that when my daughter
dresses up whether it's Groot or the
Incredible Hulk
whether it's obi-wan Kenobi or Darth
Maul why is every character she dresses
up as a boy and where are all the female
superheroes and that is not actually the
question because there's plenty of
female superheroes my question really is
where is all the female superhero stuff
where the costumes where the toys
because every day when my daughter plays
when she dresses up she's learning stuff
through a process that in my own line of
work as a professor of Media Studies we
refer to as public pedagogy that is it
is how societies are taught ideologies
it's how you learned what it meant to be
a man or a woman what it meant to behave
yourself in public what it meant to be a
patriot and have good manners it's all
the constituent social relations that
make us up as a people it's in short how
we learn what we know about other people
and about the world but we live in a 100
percent media-saturated society what
that means is that every single aspect
of your human existence outside of your
basic bodily functions is in some way
touched by media from the car that you
drive to the food that you eat to the
clothes that you wear to the way you
construct your relationships to the very
language you used to formulate thought
all of that is in some way mediated so
the answer in our society to how do we
learn what we know about other people in
about the world is largely through media
well
there's a wrinkle in that in that our
society media don't simply exist as
information distribution technologies
and devices they also exist as corporate
entities and when the distribution of
information is tied to financial gain
there's a problem how big of a problem
we'll think about this
in 1983 90% of American media were owned
by 50 companies in any market 50
companies doing something's a lot of
companies it's a lot of different world
views in 2015 that number has shrunk to
six six companies they are NBC Universal
Comcast a AOL Time Warner the Walt
Disney Company news core Viacom and the
CBS Corporation these six companies
produce nine out of every ten movies you
watch nine out of every ten television
shows nine out of every ten songs nine
out of every ten books so my question to
you is if six companies control 90% of
American media how much influence do you
think they have over what you're allowed
to see every day because in media
studies we spend a lot of time saying
that media can't tell us what to think
and they can't they're terrible at that
but that's not their job media don't
tell us what to think media tell us what
to think about they control the
conversation and in controlling the
conversation they don't have to get you
to think what they want you to think
they'll just get you thinking about the
things they want you to think about and
more importantly not thinking about the
things they don't want you to think
about they control the conversation how
does this work in practice
well let's just take one of those
companies we'll do an easy one let's
talk about the Walt Disney Company for a
second the reason why I you always pick
the Walt Disney Company is this is there
a single person in this room who has
never seen a Disney movie look around
exactly
we picked Disney because they have what
we call 100% penetration in our society
every single person has been exposed to
Disney so it's an easy one for me to use
since 1937 Disney has made most of its
money selling princesses to girls it's
made a huge chunk of its money unless of
course the princess your daughter is
interested in as my daughter is it's
this one see in 2012 Disney purchased
Lucasfilm for the sum of 4 billion
dollars and immediately they flooded the
Disney stores with han Solo and obi-wan
Kenobi with Darth Vader and Luke
Skywalker and Yoda and not Princess Leia
why because this princess messes up the
public pedagogy for these princesses so
Disney did not put participated
merchandise in the store and when people
went to Disney and said hey where's all
the Princess Leia stuff Disney said we
have no intention of putting Princess
Leia merchandise in the store and fans
were angry and they took to Twitter with
the hashtag we want Leia and Disney said
wait that's not what we meant what we
meant was we don't have any Princess
Leia merchandise yet but we will and
that was in 2012 and it is 2015 and if
you go to the Disney Store as I recently
have and look for Princess Leia
merchandise do you know how many
Princess Leia items there are in the
Disney Store 0 because Disney has no
intention of putting Princess Leia in
the store and we shouldn't be surprised
because we found out that was their
policy when they bought Marvel in 2009
for the sum of 4.5 billion dollars
because when you make a lot of money
selling princesses to girls you also
kind of want to make money from boys and
so what better to sell boys than
superheroes
so now Disney had access to Captain
America and to Thor the Incredible Hulk
and they had access even to a group of
superheroes no one had ever even heard
of that's how good Marvel was at selling
superheroes last year they released a
film called guardians of the galaxy it's
a film that absolutely should not work
nobody knew who they were except for
comic book nerds like me one of the
characters is a talking tree one of the
characters is an anthropomorphic racoon
it should not work and they made a
killing off of guardians of the galaxy
this character here in the middle her
name is Gamora she's played by Zoe
Saldana and she is strong and smart and
fast and fights like a ninja and she's
played by a beautiful black woman and my
daughter fell in love with her so like
any good nerd dad I went to buy my
daughter Gamora stuff and when I got to
the store I learned a very interesting
thing if I wanted to buy her gum or a
backpack well the more is not on it they
probably should have marketed this as
some of the guardians of the galaxy and
if I wanted to buy her a lunchbox she
wasn't on it and if I wanted to buy her
a t-shirt she wasn't on it and as a
matter of fact if I went to the store as
I did and looked at the display you
would find a small picture of Gamora
right here but if you look at any of the
actual merchandise on that shelf Gamora
is not on any of it now I could have
taken to Twitter with the hashtag
where's Gamora like millions of fans did
across the world but the truth was I
wasn't even really that surprised
because I was there when Disney had
released the Avengers and just this year
we got a new Avengers movie the age of
Ultron and we were very excited because
there was not one but two female
superheroes Scarlet Witch and Black
Widow and we were very excited but
here's the real thing about this even
though Scarlett Johansson who is one of
the most popular actresses in America
plays Black Widow and Black Widow is the
star of not one not two but five
different Marvel movies there is not a
single piece of Black Widow merchandise
available not one and if you go to the
Disney Store and you look for a Black
Widow costume which you will find is you
will find Captain America and The
Incredible Hulk you will find Iron Man
and Thor you will even find war machine
who isn't even really in the movie that
long who you will not find is Black
Widow and I could have gone to Twitter
with the hashtag as many people did
where's Natasha but I'm tired of doing
that I'm tired of having to do that all
over the country right now there are
kids playing with the cyclo blast
Quinjet playset where Captain America
rides a motorcycle out of a moving jet
and it's really awesome
you know awesome it is so awesome that
when it happened in the movie it was
Black Widow that did it not only has she
been erased but she has been replaced
with a male figure and so what is this
teaching us I mean over the next five
years Disney and Warner Brothers and a
bunch of movie studios are going to
release over 30 feature-length films
with comic book characters and of those
30 feature-length films exactly two of
them will have female solo leads - now
there will be females in the rest of
these movies but they will be sidekicks
they will be love interest they will be
members of teams they will not be the
main character and if what we learn what
we know about other people in about the
world we learned through media then
these companies are teaching my daughter
that even if she is strong and smart and
fast and fights like a ninja all four of
which are true of her it doesn't matter
she will either be ignored like Gamora
or erased and replaced with a boy like
Black Widow and it's not fair it's not
fair to her and it's not fair to your
sons and daughters either but here's the
thing I'm raising a little girl and she
has a little tomboy in her which by the
way is a terrible thing to call a girl
what that basically is saying is those
traits that define you they're not
really yours they're just on loan to you
for a little while from boys but do you
know how much grief she's going to take
in her life for having a little tomboy
in her zero none people will think it's
cute they'll call her feisty because in
our society adding so-called male traits
to girls is seen as an upgrade seen as a
bonus I'm not raising a little boy like
Mike Mike is a little boy who lives in
Florida he's 11 years old and the thing
that he loves most in the world is a
show called My Little Pony Friendship is
Magic like millions of other children
across America now the show is marketed
to girls ages 5 to 9 but there are
millions of boys and grown
who enjoyed My Little Pony Friendship is
Magic they have a club they call
themselves bronies pony bros guys who
like ponies I happen to be one of them
and what are Mike and myself and
millions of other boys and men learning
in this feminine sissified world of my
little pony well they're learning to
study hard and to work hard and to party
hard and to look good and to feel good
and to do good and heaven preserve us
from teaching these whoosah five
concepts to boys so the other kids in
his neighborhood pick on Mike and they
beat him up and they make fun of him and
at 11 years old Mike goes home finds a
belt wraps it around his neck and hangs
himself from the top bunk of his bed
because we have developed a society in
which you would rather be dead as a boy
then thought of as liking stuff for
girls and that is not Mike's fault that
is our fault we have failed him we have
failed our children and we have to do
better for them we have to stop making
it so that the only female superheroes
appear on shirts that are pink and cut
for girls we have to stop and when I was
putting this together people said to me
well that's never going to happen and I
said oh really because just this year
target announced that they were going to
stop Jen during their toy aisles they
were going to mix it up now before we
you know break our shoulders Pat and
target on the back just this week they
released a shirt in which one of the
most iconic scenes in Star Wars a new
hope where Princess Leia stands up to
the Dark Lord of the Sith was released
on a t-shirt in which she's mysteriously
replaced by Luke so let's don't pat
ourselves on the back too much just this
week also Disney announced it was no
longer going to gender it's Halloween
costumes which I say Thank You Disney
except the only costumes you make are of
male superheroes so it doesn't matter
who you have wearing them just this week
Mattel who makes Barbie announced
they're going to release a line of DC
superhero girls and the funny thing is
they met with girls and asked them what
they wanted to see in dolls and you can
see they have calves and elbows that
Bend so they can do super
hero stuff and please buy them and don't
just buy them for your daughters buy
them for your sons because it's
important that boys play with and as
female superheroes just like my daughter
plays with and as male superheroes as a
matter of fact what I would love is a
world in which every person who goes to
the store goes with a little flowchart
in their head of whether or not they
should buy this toy for a boy or a girl
and it's a real simple flowchart because
it only has one question on it it says
is this toy operated with your genitals
if the answer is yes then that is not a
toy for children and if the answer is no
then it's for boys and girls it's really
simple because today is about the future
of the future and in my future boys and
girls are equally respected equally
valued and most importantly equally
represented thank you
[Applause]